What the first step of the home buying process?
Getting pre-approved for a mortgage is the first step of the home buying process. Getting a preapproval letter from a lender get the ball rolling in the right direction.
How long does it take to buy a home?
From start (searching online) to finish (closing escrow), buying a home takes about 10 to 12 weeks.
What is a seller’s market?
the local labor market heats up, bringing an inflow of new residents and pushing up home prices before more inventory can be built.
Interest rates trending downward
improves home affordability, creating more buyer interest, particularly for first time home buyers who can afford bigger homes as the cost of money goes lower.
What is a buyer’s market?
A buyer’s market is characterized by declining home prices and reduced demand. Several factors may affect long-term and short-term buyer demand, like: Economic disruption - a big employer shuts down operations, laying off their workforce.
What is a stratified market?
A stratified market happens where supply and demand characteristics differ by price point, in the same area (typically by city). For example, home sales for properties above $1.5M may be brisk (seller’s market) while homes under $750k may be sluggish (buyer’s market). This scenario comes along every so often in West Coast cities where international investors - looking to park their money in the United States - buy expensive real estate. At the same time, home sales activity in mid-priced homes could be entirely different.
How much do I have to pay an agent to help me buy a house?
For most home sales, there are two real estate agents involved in the deal: one that represents the seller and another who represents the buyer.
What kind of credit score do I need to buy a home?
Most loan programs require a FICO score of 620 or better. Borrowers with higher credit scores represent less risk to the lender, often resulting in a lower the down payment requirement and better interest rate. Conversely, home shoppers with lower credit scores may need to bring more money to the table (or accept a higher interest rate) to offset the lender’s risk.
How much do I need for a down payment?
The national average for down payments is 11%. But that figure includes first time and repeat buyers. Let’s take a closer look.
Should I sell my current home before buying a new one?
If the built-up equity in your current home will be applied to the down payment on the new home, naturally the former will need to be sold first.
How many homes should I view before buying one?
That’s up to you! For sure, home shopping today is easier today than ever before. The ability to search for homes online and see pictures, even before setting a foot outside the comfort of your living room, has completely changed the home buying game. Convenience is at an all-time high. But, nothing beats visiting a home to see how it looks and ‘feels’ in person.
What is earnest money?
How long can the seller take to respond to my offer?
Written offers should stipulate the timeframe in which the seller should respond. Giving them twenty-four hours should be sufficient.
What if my offer is rejected?
Sellers can flat-out accept or reject an initial offer. But there a third path that is quite common, sellers can initiate a counteroffer. Remember this: a deal isn’t dead until it’s dead. So, if a counteroffer is proffered by the seller, you’re still in the game. You and your agent just need to review it determine whether the counteroffer is acceptable. If so, then approving it closes the deal immediately. Keep in mind, offers and counteroffers can go back-and-forth many times; this is not unusual and negotiations are a part of what Realtors do as a matter of routine. Each revision should bring both parties closer together on the terms of the deal.
Should I order a home inspection?
Yes! Home inspections are required if you plan on financing your home with an FHA or VA loan. For other mortgage programs, inspections are not required. However, home inspections are highly recommended because they can reveal defects in the home that are not easily detected. Home inspections bring peace of mind to one of the biggest investments of a lifetime.
Do I need to do a final walk-through?
It’s not required, but it’s a darn good idea! Final walk-throughs give buyers a chance to make sure nothing had changed since their first visit. If repairs were requested, as part of the offer, a follow-up visit ensures that everything is squared-away, as expected, per the terms of the contract.
What is the current interst rate?
The current interst rate is 16% in Pakistan
current interst rate
The current interst rate is 16% in Pakistan
tell me about bech do
bech do is a realestate management platform where you are sell, buy and rent properties which are suitable for you and can easly predict there current and future cost
hi
hi, How can I help you sir!
